# WebRTC

Copyright (c) 2011, The WebRTC project authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Google nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# WebRTC Files governed by third party licenses:

base/base64.cc
base/base64.h
base/sigslot.cc
base/sigslot.h
common_audio/fft4g.c
common_audio/signal_processing/spl_sqrt_floor.c
common_audio/signal_processing/spl_sqrt_floor_arm.S
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g711/main/source/g711.c
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g711/main/source/g711.h
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g722/main/source/g722_decode.c
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g722/main/source/g722_enc_dec.h
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g722/main/source/g722_encode.c
modules/audio_coding/codecs/isac/main/source/fft.c
modules/audio_device/mac/portaudio/pa_memorybarrier.h
modules/audio_device/mac/portaudio/pa_ringbuffer.c
modules/audio_device/mac/portaudio/pa_ringbuffer.h
modules/audio_processing/aec/aec_rdft.c
system_wrappers/source/condition_variable_event_win.cc
system_wrappers/source/set_thread_name_win.h

Individual licenses for each file:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
base/base64.cc
base/base64.h

License:
//*********************************************************************
//* Base64 - a simple base64 encoder and decoder.
//*
//*     Copyright (c) 1999, Bob Withers - bwit@pobox.com
//*
//* This code may be freely used for any purpose, either personal
//* or commercial, provided the authors copyright notice remains
//* intact.
//*
//* Enhancements by Stanley Yamane:
//*     o reverse lookup table for the decode function
//*     o reserve string buffer space in advance
//*
//*********************************************************************
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
base/sigslot.cc
base/sigslot.h

License:
// sigslot.h: Signal/Slot classes
//
// Written by Sarah Thompson (sarah@telergy.com) 2002.
//
// License: Public domain. You are free to use this code however you like, with
// the proviso that the author takes on no responsibility or liability for any
// use.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
common_audio/signal_processing/spl_sqrt_floor.c
common_audio/signal_processing/spl_sqrt_floor_arm.S

License:
/*
 * Written by Wilco Dijkstra, 1996. The following email exchange establishes the
 * license.
 *
 * From: Wilco Dijkstra <Wilco.Dijkstra@ntlworld.com>
 * Date: Fri, Jun 24, 2011 at 3:20 AM
 * Subject: Re: sqrt routine
 * To: Kevin Ma <kma@google.com>
 * Hi Kevin,
 * Thanks for asking. Those routines are public domain (originally posted to
 * comp.sys.arm a long time ago), so you can use them freely for any purpose.
 * Cheers,
 * Wilco
 *
 * ----- Original Message -----
 * From: "Kevin Ma" <kma@google.com>
 * To: <Wilco.Dijkstra@ntlworld.com>
 * Sent: Thursday, June 23, 2011 11:44 PM
 * Subject: Fwd: sqrt routine
 * Hi Wilco,
 * I saw your sqrt routine from several web sites, including
 * http://www.finesse.demon.co.uk/steven/sqrt.html.
 * Just wonder if there's any copyright information with your Successive
 * approximation routines, or if I can freely use it for any purpose.
 * Thanks.
 * Kevin
 */
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g711/main/source/g711.c
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g711/main/source/g711.h

License:
/*
 * SpanDSP - a series of DSP components for telephony
 *
 * g711.h - In line A-law and u-law conversion routines
 *
 * Written by Steve Underwood <steveu@coppice.org>
 *
 * Copyright (C) 2001 Steve Underwood
 *
 *  Despite my general liking of the GPL, I place this code in the
 *  public domain for the benefit of all mankind - even the slimy
 *  ones who might try to proprietize my work and use it to my
 *  detriment.
 */
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g722/main/source/g722_decode.c
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g722/main/source/g722_enc_dec.h
modules/audio_coding/codecs/g722/main/source/g722_encode.c

License:
/*
 * SpanDSP - a series of DSP components for telephony
 *
 * g722_decode.c - The ITU G.722 codec, decode part.
 *
 * Written by Steve Underwood <steveu@coppice.org>
 *
 * Copyright (C) 2005 Steve Underwood
 *
 *  Despite my general liking of the GPL, I place my own contributions
 *  to this code in the public domain for the benefit of all mankind -
 *  even the slimy ones who might try to proprietize my work and use it
 *  to my detriment.
 *
 * Based in part on a single channel G.722 codec which is:
 *
 * Copyright (c) CMU 1993
 * Computer Science, Speech Group
 * Chengxiang Lu and Alex Hauptmann
 */
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
modules/audio_coding/codecs/isac/main/source/fft.c

License:
/*
 * Copyright(c)1995,97 Mark Olesen <olesen@me.QueensU.CA>
 *    Queen's Univ at Kingston (Canada)
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for
 * any purpose without fee is hereby granted, provided that this
 * entire notice is included in all copies of any software which is
 * or includes a copy or modification of this software and in all
 * copies of the supporting documentation for such software.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
 * IMPLIED WARRANTY.  IN PARTICULAR, NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR QUEEN'S
 * UNIVERSITY AT KINGSTON MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY
 * KIND CONCERNING THE MERCHANTABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE OR ITS
 * FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 *
 * All of which is to say that you can do what you like with this
 * source code provided you don't try to sell it as your own and you
 * include an unaltered copy of this message (including the
 * copyright).
 *
 * It is also implicitly understood that bug fixes and improvements
 * should make their way back to the general Internet community so
 * that everyone benefits.
 */
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
modules/audio_device/mac/portaudio/pa_memorybarrier.h
modules/audio_device/mac/portaudio/pa_ringbuffer.c
modules/audio_device/mac/portaudio/pa_ringbuffer.h

License:
/*
 * $Id: pa_memorybarrier.h 1240 2007-07-17 13:05:07Z bjornroche $
 * Portable Audio I/O Library
 * Memory barrier utilities
 *
 * Author: Bjorn Roche, XO Audio, LLC
 *
 * This program uses the PortAudio Portable Audio Library.
 * For more information see: http://www.portaudio.com
 * Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Ross Bencina and Phil Burk
 *
 * Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
 * a copy of this software and associated documentation files
 * (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
 * including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
 * publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
 * and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
 * subject to the following conditions:
 *
 * The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
 * included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
 * EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
 * MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR
 * ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
 * CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
 * WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 */

/*
 * The text above constitutes the entire PortAudio license; however,
 * the PortAudio community also makes the following non-binding requests:
 *
 * Any person wishing to distribute modifications to the Software is
 * requested to send the modifications to the original developer so that
 * they can be incorporated into the canonical version. It is also
 * requested that these non-binding requests be included along with the
 * license above.
 */

/*
 * $Id: pa_ringbuffer.c 1421 2009-11-18 16:09:05Z bjornroche $
 * Portable Audio I/O Library
 * Ring Buffer utility.
 *
 * Author: Phil Burk, http://www.softsynth.com
 * modified for SMP safety on Mac OS X by Bjorn Roche
 * modified for SMP safety on Linux by Leland Lucius
 * also, allowed for const where possible
 * modified for multiple-byte-sized data elements by Sven Fischer
 *
 * Note that this is safe only for a single-thread reader and a
 * single-thread writer.
 *
 * This program uses the PortAudio Portable Audio Library.
 * For more information see: http://www.portaudio.com
 * Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Ross Bencina and Phil Burk
 *
 * Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
 * a copy of this software and associated documentation files
 * (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
 * including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
 * publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
 * and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
 * subject to the following conditions:
 *
 * The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
 * included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
 * EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
 * MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR
 * ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
 * CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
 * WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 */

/*
 * The text above constitutes the entire PortAudio license; however,
 * the PortAudio community also makes the following non-binding requests:
 *
 * Any person wishing to distribute modifications to the Software is
 * requested to send the modifications to the original developer so that
 * they can be incorporated into the canonical version. It is also
 * requested that these non-binding requests be included along with the
 * license above.
 */
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
common_audio/fft4g.c
modules/audio_processing/aec/aec_rdft.c

License:
/*
 * http://www.kurims.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~ooura/fft.html
 * Copyright Takuya OOURA, 1996-2001
 *
 * You may use, copy, modify and distribute this code for any purpose (include
 * commercial use) and without fee. Please refer to this package when you modify
 * this code.
 */
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
system_wrappers/source/condition_variable_event_win.cc

Source:
http://www1.cse.wustl.edu/~schmidt/ACE-copying.html

License:
Copyright and Licensing Information for ACE(TM), TAO(TM), CIAO(TM), DAnCE(TM),
and CoSMIC(TM)

ACE(TM), TAO(TM), CIAO(TM), DAnCE>(TM), and CoSMIC(TM) (henceforth referred to
as "DOC software") are copyrighted by Douglas C. Schmidt and his research
group at Washington University, University of California, Irvine, and
Vanderbilt University, Copyright (c) 1993-2009, all rights reserved. Since DOC
software is open-source, freely available software, you are free to use,
modify, copy, and distribute--perpetually and irrevocably--the DOC software
source code and object code produced from the source, as well as copy and
distribute modified versions of this software. You must, however, include this
copyright statement along with any code built using DOC software that you
release. No copyright statement needs to be provided if you just ship binary
executables of your software products.
You can use DOC software in commercial and/or binary software releases and are
under no obligation to redistribute any of your source code that is built
using DOC software. Note, however, that you may not misappropriate the DOC
software code, such as copyrighting it yourself or claiming authorship of the
DOC software code, in a way that will prevent DOC software from being
distributed freely using an open-source development model. You needn't inform
anyone that you're using DOC software in your software, though we encourage
you to let us know so we can promote your project in the DOC software success
stories.

The ACE, TAO, CIAO, DAnCE, and CoSMIC web sites are maintained by the DOC
Group at the Institute for Software Integrated Systems (ISIS) and the Center
for Distributed Object Computing of Washington University, St. Louis for the
development of open-source software as part of the open-source software
community. Submissions are provided by the submitter ``as is'' with no
warranties whatsoever, including any warranty of merchantability,
noninfringement of third party intellectual property, or fitness for any
particular purpose. In no event shall the submitter be liable for any direct,
indirect, special, exemplary, punitive, or consequential damages, including
without limitation, lost profits, even if advised of the possibility of such
damages. Likewise, DOC software is provided as is with no warranties of any
kind, including the warranties of design, merchantability, and fitness for a
particular purpose, noninfringement, or arising from a course of dealing,
usage or trade practice. Washington University, UC Irvine, Vanderbilt
University, their employees, and students shall have no liability with respect
to the infringement of copyrights, trade secrets or any patents by DOC
software or any part thereof. Moreover, in no event will Washington
University, UC Irvine, or Vanderbilt University, their employees, or students
be liable for any lost revenue or profits or other special, indirect and
consequential damages.

DOC software is provided with no support and without any obligation on the
part of Washington University, UC Irvine, Vanderbilt University, their
employees, or students to assist in its use, correction, modification, or
enhancement. A number of companies around the world provide commercial support
for DOC software, however. DOC software is Y2K-compliant, as long as the
underlying OS platform is Y2K-compliant. Likewise, DOC software is compliant
with the new US daylight savings rule passed by Congress as "The Energy Policy
Act of 2005," which established new daylight savings times (DST) rules for the
United States that expand DST as of March 2007. Since DOC software obtains
time/date and calendaring information from operating systems users will not be
affected by the new DST rules as long as they upgrade their operating systems
accordingly.

The names ACE(TM), TAO(TM), CIAO(TM), DAnCE(TM), CoSMIC(TM), Washington
University, UC Irvine, and Vanderbilt University, may not be used to endorse
or promote products or services derived from this source without express
written permission from Washington University, UC Irvine, or Vanderbilt
University. This license grants no permission to call products or services
derived from this source ACE(TM), TAO(TM), CIAO(TM), DAnCE(TM), or CoSMIC(TM),
nor does it grant permission for the name Washington University, UC Irvine, or
Vanderbilt University to appear in their names.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Files:
system_wrappers/source/set_thread_name_win.h

Source:
http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/cc300389.aspx#P

License:
This license governs use of code marked as “sample” or “example” available on
this web site without a license agreement, as provided under the section above
titled “NOTICE SPECIFIC TO SOFTWARE AVAILABLE ON THIS WEB SITE.” If you use
such code (the “software”), you accept this license. If you do not accept the
license, do not use the software.

1. Definitions

The terms “reproduce,” “reproduction,” “derivative works,” and “distribution”
have the same meaning here as under U.S. copyright law.

A “contribution” is the original software, or any additions or changes to the
software.

A “contributor” is any person that distributes its contribution under this
license.

“Licensed patents” are a contributor’s patent claims that read directly on its
contribution.

2. Grant of Rights

(A) Copyright Grant - Subject to the terms of this license, including the
license conditions and limitations in section 3, each contributor grants you a
non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce its
contribution, prepare derivative works of its contribution, and distribute its
contribution or any derivative works that you create.

(B) Patent Grant - Subject to the terms of this license, including the license
conditions and limitations in section 3, each contributor grants you a
non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license under its licensed patents to
make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, import, and/or otherwise dispose
of its contribution in the software or derivative works of the contribution in
the software.

3. Conditions and Limitations

(A) No Trademark License- This license does not grant you rights to use any
contributors’ name, logo, or trademarks.

(B) If you bring a patent claim against any contributor over patents that you
claim are infringed by the software, your patent license from such contributor
to the software ends automatically.

(C) If you distribute any portion of the software, you must retain all
copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices that are present in the
software.

(D) If you distribute any portion of the software in source code form, you may
do so only under this license by including a complete copy of this license
with your distribution. If you distribute any portion of the software in
compiled or object code form, you may only do so under a license that complies
with this license.

(E) The software is licensed “as-is.” You bear the risk of using it. The
contributors give no express warranties, guarantees or conditions. You may
have additional consumer rights under your local laws which this license
cannot change. To the extent permitted under your local laws, the contributors
exclude the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose and non-infringement.

(F) Platform Limitation - The licenses granted in sections 2(A) and 2(B)
extend only to the software or derivative works that you create that run on a
Microsoft Windows operating system product.

# boringssl

BoringSSL is a fork of OpenSSL. As such, large parts of it fall under OpenSSL
licensing. Files that are completely new have a Google copyright and an ISC
license. This license is reproduced at the bottom of this file.

Contributors to BoringSSL are required to follow the CLA rules for Chromium:
https://cla.developers.google.com/clas

Files in third_party/ have their own licenses, as described therein. The MIT
license, for third_party/fiat, which, unlike other third_party directories, is
compiled into non-test libraries, is included below.

The OpenSSL toolkit stays under a dual license, i.e. both the conditions of the
OpenSSL License and the original SSLeay license apply to the toolkit. See below
for the actual license texts. Actually both licenses are BSD-style Open Source
licenses. In case of any license issues related to OpenSSL please contact
openssl-core@openssl.org.

The following are Google-internal bug numbers where explicit permission from
some authors is recorded for use of their work. (This is purely for our own
record keeping.)
  27287199
  27287880
  27287883

  OpenSSL License
  ---------------

/* ====================================================================
 * Copyright (c) 1998-2011 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 *
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 *
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 *    distribution.
 *
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
 *    software must display the following acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
 *
 * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
 *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
 *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
 *    openssl-core@openssl.org.
 *
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
 *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
 *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
 *
 * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
 *    acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
 * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 * ====================================================================
 *
 * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
 * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim
 * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
 *
 */

 Original SSLeay License
 -----------------------

/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * This package is an SSL implementation written
 * by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
 * The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.
 *
 * This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as
 * the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions
 * apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,
 * lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation
 * included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms
 * except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
 *
 * Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in
 * the code are not to be removed.
 * If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution
 * as the author of the parts of the library used.
 * This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or
 * in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *    "This product includes cryptographic software written by
 *     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"
 *    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library
 *    being used are not cryptographic related :-).
 * 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from
 *    the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:
 *    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 * SUCH DAMAGE.
 *
 * The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
 * derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be
 * copied and put under another distribution licence
 * [including the GNU Public Licence.]
 */


ISC license used for completely new code in BoringSSL:

/* Copyright (c) 2015, Google Inc.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
 * WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
 * MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
 * SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
 * WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
 * OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
 * CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. */


The code in third_party/fiat carries the MIT license:

Copyright (c) 2015-2016 the fiat-crypto authors (see
https://github.com/mit-plv/fiat-crypto/blob/master/AUTHORS).

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


The code in third_party/sike also carries the MIT license:

Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE


Licenses for support code
-------------------------

Parts of the TLS test suite are under the Go license. This code is not included
in BoringSSL (i.e. libcrypto and libssl) when compiled, however, so
distributing code linked against BoringSSL does not trigger this license:

Copyright (c) 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
   * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


BoringSSL uses the Chromium test infrastructure to run a continuous build,
trybots etc. The scripts which manage this, and the script for generating build
metadata, are under the Chromium license. Distributing code linked against
BoringSSL does not trigger this license.

Copyright 2015 The Chromium Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
   * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# libsrtp

/*
 *
 * Copyright (c) 2001-2006 Cisco Systems, Inc.
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 *
 *   Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 *
 *   Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
 *   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
 *   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
 *   with the distribution.
 *
 *   Neither the name of the Cisco Systems, Inc. nor the names of its
 *   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
 *   from this software without specific prior written permission.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
 * "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 * LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
 * FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 * COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
 * INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
 * (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
 * SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 *
 */

# usrsctp

Copyright (c) 2015,  Randall Stewart and Michael Tuexen
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of usrsctp nor the names of its
  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
  this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# libvpx

Copyright (c) 2010, The WebM Project authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.

  * Neither the name of Google, nor the WebM Project, nor the names
    of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
    derived from this software without specific prior written
    permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# libyuv

Copyright 2011 The LibYuv Project Authors. All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.
  * Neither the name of Google nor the names of its contributors may
    be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
    without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# Opus

https://opus-codec.org/license/

Opus has a freely available specification, a BSD-licensed, high-quality reference encoder and decoder, and protective, royalty-free licenses for the required patents. The copyright and patent licenses for Opus are automatically granted to everyone and do not require application or approval. The Opus FAQ has more information on why Opus is freely licensed.

In brief:(see below for details)

You can encode or decode Opus-compatible streams for any purpose at no cost.
You can integrate the reference Opus encoder and decoder in any application, program or product, even commercially, at no cost.
You can create your own compatible implementations of the Opus specification and give them away or sell them.
You may not do these things if you engage on Opus-related patent litigation against any user of Opus.
Licensing details
Copyright
Specification
The specification is freely available as part of IETF RFC 6716. The RFC includes the reference implementation, which is available under the three-clause BSD license (see below).

Implementation
Both the reference implementation and the revised implementations on opus-codec.org are available under the three-clause BSD license. This BSD license is compatible with all common open source and commercial software licenses.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

- Neither the name of Internet Society, IETF or IETF Trust, nor the names of specific contributors, may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Tools
Most of the command-line Ogg-based tools that are shipped as part of the separate opus-tools package are also released under the three-clause BSD license. The only exception is the opusinfo tool, which is released under the GPLv2 license. Proprietary software developers wishing to use Opus may copy code from opusenc and opusdec, but they may not copy code from the opusinfo tool to build their applications.

Patents
Opus is covered by several patents. These patents are available under open-source-compatible, royalty-free licenses. If you are not trying to attack Opus with your patents, you will not have problems with these licenses.

Some of these licenses have been updated in the past and may be updated again in the future. However, updates never invalidate the old licenses and users are always free to rely on any of the previously available licenses. In other words, newer licenses can give more rights, but never fewer.

Xiph.Org Foundation
The Xiph.Org foundation has several patent applications on techniques used in Opus. When issued, these patents will be automatically available under the terms provided in the below license. The license covers the listed patent applications, along with any other patent or application covering Opus that is owned by Xiph.Org.

Xiph.Org Patents/Applications covered:

US 61/284,154
US 61/450,041
US 61/450,053
US 61/450,060
and any other applicable
LICENSE GRANT
Xiph.Org Foundation (“Xiph”) hereby grants to you a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge,royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this license) license under Licensed Patents to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, transfer, and otherwise run, modify (in a way that still complies with the Specification), and reproduce any Implementation.

Definitions. Specification means, and includes the following, both individually and collectively, (a) any standard specification of the Opus codec adopted by the IETF Codec Working Group (“Standard”) and (b) any reference implementation (each, a “Reference Implementation”) published by the IETF Codec Working Group in the request for comments (“RFC”) issued by the IETF for the Specification draft for which this License is issued, or any RFC that is issued as an update or new version thereof. An Implementation means any Reference Implementation, or another implementation that complies with the Specification. Licensed Patents means all patents currently owned by Xiph or acquired hereafter that Xiph has the right to license as set forth above and that are necessarily infringed by the Specification, where “necessarily infringed” means: in the case of (a) above, there is no commercially viable means of implementing the Specification without infringing such patent; in the case of (b) above, use of the reference implementation to the extent it infringes such patent.

Termination. If you, directly or indirectly via controlled affiliate or subsidiary, agent, or exclusive licensee, file a Claim for patent infringement against any entity alleging that an Implementation in whole or in part constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, or inducement of patent infringement (a “Claim”), provided that a Reference Implementation also infringes the patents asserted in the Claim, then any patent rights granted to you under this License shall automatically terminate retroactively as of the date you first received the grant. Claims made against an Implementation in part will only trigger termination if the Implementation in part was done for the purpose of combining it with other technology that complies with the Specification so that the technology’s ultimate use will be consistent with the Standard as a whole.

This license is also filed on the IETF site.

Broadcom
Broadcom has both issued patents and outstanding applications covering Opus. These are available under the same license as the Xiph.Org patents. The license covers the listed patents and patent applications, along with any other patent or application covering Opus that is owned by Broadcom.

Broadcom Patents/Applications covered:

US 61/406,106
US 61/394,842
US 7,353,168
and any other applicable
LICENSE GRANT
Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”) hereby grants to you a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this license) license under Licensed Patents to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, transfer, and otherwise run, modify (in a way that still complies with the Specification), and reproduce any Implementation.

Definitions. Specification means, and includes the following, both individually and collectively, (a) any standard specification of the Opus codec adopted by the IETF Codec Working Group (“Standard”) and (b) any reference implementation (each, a “Reference Implementation”) published by the IETF Codec Working Group in the request for comments (“RFC”) issued by the IETF for the Specification draft for which this License is issued, or any RFC that is issued as an update or new version thereof. An Implementation means any Reference Implementation, or another implementation that complies with the Specification. Licensed Patents means all patents currently owned by Broadcom or acquired hereafter that Broadcom has the right to license as set forth above and that are necessarily infringed by the Specification, where “necessarily infringed” means: in the case of (a) above, there is no commercially viable means of implementing the Specification without infringing such patent; in the case of (b) above, use of the reference implementation to the extent it infringes such patent.

Termination. If you, directly or indirectly via controlled affiliate or subsidiary, agent, or exclusive licensee, file a Claim for patent infringement against any entity alleging that an Implementation in whole or in part constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, or inducement of patent infringement (a “Claim”), provided that a Reference Implementation also infringes the patents asserted in the Claim, then any patent rights granted to you under this License shall automatically terminate retroactively as of the date you first received the grant. Claims made against an Implementation in part will only trigger termination if the Implementation in part was done for the purpose of combining it with other technology that complies with the Specification so that the technology’s ultimate use will be consistent with the Standard as a whole.

This license is also filed on the IETF site.

Microsoft
Microsoft acquired patents and applications related to Opus through their purchase of Skype. These patents (and any other Microsoft might have had) are available under a different, but still royalty-free, license detailed below. The license covers the listed patent applications, along with any other patent or application covering Opus that is owned by Microsoft.

Microsoft Patents/Applications covered:

US-2008-0201137-A1
US-2010-0174535-A1
US-2010-0174534-A1
US-2010-0174547-A1
US-2010-0174532-A1
US-2010-0174537-A1
US-2010-0174542-A1
US-2010-0174531-A1
US-2010-0174541-A1
US-2010-0174538-A1
US-2011-0077940-A1
and any other applicable
MICROSOFT OPUS PATENT TERMS
11-7-2012

1. Patent Terms.

1.1. Specification License. Subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I, on behalf of myself and my successors in interest and assigns, hereby grant you a non-sublicensable, perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable license to my Necessary Decoder Claims for your Specification Implementation.

1.2. Code License. Subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, I, on behalf of myself and my successors in interest and assigns, hereby grant you a non-sublicensable, perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable patent license to my Necessary Reference Implementation Claims to make, use, sell, offer for sale, import or distribute a Code Implementation.

1.3. Conditions.

1.3.1. Availability. If you own or control Necessary Claims, the licenses set forth in Section 1 are subject to and will become effective starting on the date that you make a binding public irrevocable commitment to license, on reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-free licensing terms 1) your Necessary Decoder Claims to all implementers for Specification Implementations, and 2) your Necessary Reference Implementation Claims to all implementers for Code Implementations, where the terms of this Agreement satisfy any reciprocity requirements in your reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-free licensing terms. The promises set forth in Section 1 will remain in effect so long as you continue to make such claims available for Specification Implementations and Code Implementations under reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-free licensing terms. In addition, as a condition of the licenses set forth in Section 1, you acknowledge and agree that you have not and will not knowingly take any action for the purpose of circumventing the conditions in this Section 1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you are not required to make the commitments set forth in this Section 1.3.1 as a result of merely using a Specification Implementation or a Code Implementation as an end-user.

1.3.2. Additional Conditions. This license is directly from me to you and you acknowledge as a condition of benefiting from it that no rights from me are received from suppliers, distributors, or otherwise in connection with this license. This license is not an assurance (i) that any of my issued patent claims covers a Specification Implementation or Code Implementation or are enforceable or (ii) that a Specification Implementation or Code Implementation would not infringe intellectual property rights of any third party.

1.4. Termination. All rights, grants, and promises made by me to you under Section 1 are immediately terminated if you or your agent file, maintain, or voluntarily participate in a lawsuit against me or any person or entity asserting that a Specification Implementation infringes Necessary Decoder Claims or a Code Implementation infringes Necessary Reference Implementation Claims, unless that suit was in response to a corresponding suit regarding a Specification Implementation or Code Implementation first brought against you. In addition, all rights, grants, and promises made by me to you under Section 1 are terminated if you, your agent, or successor in interest seek to license Necessary Decoder Claims for Specification Implementations or Necessary Reference Implementations Claims for Code Implementations on a royalty-bearing basis, unless that royalty-bearing licensing activity is in addition to, and not in lieu of, reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-free licensing terms for Necessary Decoder Claims for Specification Implementations or Necessary Reference Implementation Claims for Code Implementations. This Agreement may also be terminated, including back to the date of non-compliance, because of non-compliance with any other term or condition of this Agreement.

2. Patent License Commitment. On behalf of me and my successors in interest and assigns, I agree to offer alternative reasonable and non-discriminatory royalty-bearing licensing terms 1) to my Necessary Decoder Claims solely for your Specification Implementation and 2) to my Necessary Reference Implementations Claims solely for your Code Implementation.

3. Past Skype Declarations. You may, at your option, continue to rely on the terms set forth in Skype’s past declarations made to the IETF for the Opus Audio Codec, subject to the terms of those declarations and in lieu of the terms of this Agreement solely for the patents set forth in those declarations.

4. Good Faith Obligations. I agree that I have not and will not knowingly take any action for the purpose of circumventing my obligations under this Agreement. In addition, I will not 1) seek an injunction or exclusion order against a) Code Implementations for Necessary Reference Implementation Claims or b) Specification Implementations for Necessary Decoder Claims or 2) require that an implementer license its patents back to me, except for Necessary Reference Implementation Claims for Code Implementations and Necessary Decoder Claims for Specification Implementations. I will not transfer Necessary Reference Implementation Claims or Necessary Decoder Claims unless the transferee is subject to these obligations.

5. Disclaimers. I expressly disclaim any warranties (express, implied, or otherwise), including implied warranties of merchantability, non-infringement, fitness for a particular purpose, or title, related to the Specification or Reference Implementation. The entire risk as to implementing or otherwise using the Specification, Specification Implementation, or Code Implementation is assumed by the implementer and user. IN NO EVENT WILL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR LOST PROFITS OR ANY FORM OF INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER FROM ANY CAUSES OF ACTION OF ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED ON BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT THE OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. Nothing in this Agreement requires me to undertake a patent search.

6. Definitions.

6.1. Agreement. “Agreement” means this document, which sets forth the rights, grants, limitations, conditions, obligations, and disclaimers made available for the particular Specification.

6.2. Code Implementation. “Code Implementation” means making, using, selling, offering for sale, importing or distributing 1) the Reference Implementation, or 2) an implementation that, in the case of an encoder, produces a bitstream that can be decoded by a Specification Implementation solely to the extent it produces such a bitstream, and, in the case of decoder, is a Specification Implementation, where that Specification Implementation may also infringe Necessary Reference Implementation Claims.

6.3. Control. “Control” means direct or indirect control of more than 50% of the voting power to elect directors of that corporation, or for any other entity, the power to direct management of such entity.

6.4. I, Me, or My. “I,” “me,” or “my” refers to the party making this declaration, and any entity that I Control.

6.5. Necessary Claims. “Necessary Claims” means Necessary Decoder Claims and Necessary Reference Implementation Claims.

6.6. Necessary Decoder Claims. “Necessary Decoder Claims” are those patent claims that a party owns or controls, including those claims acquired after the date of this declaration, that are necessarily infringed by an implementation of the required portions (including the required elements of optional portions) of the decoder Specification that are described in detail and not merely referenced in the Specification.

6.7. Necessary Reference Implementation Claims. “Necessary Reference Implementation Claims” are those patent claims that a party owns or controls, including those claims acquired after the date of this declaration, that are necessarily infringed by the Reference Implementation. Necessary Reference Implementation Claims do not include claims that would be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the Reference Implementation.

6.8. Reference Implementation. “Reference Implementation” means the implementation of the Opus encoder and/or decoder code extracted from Appendix A of the Specification.

6.9. Specification. “Specification” means IETF RFC 6716 dated September 2012.

6.10. Specification Implementation. “Specification Implementation” means making, using, selling, offering for sale, importing or distributing any conformant implementation of the decoder set forth in the Specification 1) only to the extent it implements the Specification and 2) so long as all required portions of the Specification are implemented. Specification Implementation also includes any implementation of a decoder included in subsequent versions of RFC 6716 1) only to the extent that it implements the decoder Specification, and 2) so long as all required portions of the decoder Specification are implemented.

6.11. You or Your. “You,” “you,” or “your” means any person or entity who exercises patent rights granted under this Agreement, and any person or entity you Control.

This license is also filed on the IETF site. The old license is still available.

Other disclosures
While Xiph.Org, Broadcom, and Microsoft filed IPR disclosures giving royalty-free licenses to their patents used in Opus, four companies that did not directly participate in the development of Opus, Qualcomm, Huawei, France Telecom, and Ericsson, filed IPR disclosures with potentially royalty-bearing terms. The IETF allows anyone (and their dog) to file an IPR disclosures if they think that their patents “covers or may ultimately cover” a standard. In fact, for any organization who can be said to have contributed in any (very loosely defined) way, these IPR statements are not just allowed, but required. It is thus safer for organisations to declare as much as they can. As an example, one can find similar non-free Qualcomm IPR statements on both SIP and SDP. To our advantage, however, the IETF IPR disclosure policies require companies to provide the actual patent numbers. This allows anyone to verify these claims for themselves, which is definitely a good thing.

When it comes to patents, it is difficult to say much without making lawyers nervous. However, we can say something quite direct: external counsel Dergosits & Noah has advised us that Opus can be implemented without the need to license the patents disclosed by Qualcomm, Huawei, France Telecom, or Ericsson. We can also say that Mozilla is confident enough in Opus to ship it to hundreds of millions of Firefox users. Similarly, Cisco and Google are also supporting Opus in some products. More companies are expected to do the same soon.

Mozilla invested significant legal resources into avoiding known patent thickets when designing Opus. Whenever possible, we used processes and methods that have been long known in the field and which are considered patent-free. In addition, we filed numerous patent applications on the new things we invented to help defend the Opus community. As a result, Opus is available on a royalty-free basis and can be deployed by anyone, including other open-source projects. Everyone knows this is an incredibly challenging legal environment to operate in, but we think we’ve succeeded.

# Ne10

/*
 *  Copyright 2012-16 ARM Limited and Contributors.
 *  All rights reserved.
 *
 *  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 *  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
 *    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 *    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 *    * Neither the name of ARM Limited nor the
 *      names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
 *      derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
 *
 *  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ARM LIMITED AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
 *  ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
 *  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
 *  DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL ARM LIMITED AND CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
 *  DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
 *  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
 *  LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
 *  ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 *  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
 *  SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 */

# Protobuf

This license applies to all parts of Protocol Buffers except the following:

  - Atomicops support for generic gcc, located in
    src/google/protobuf/stubs/atomicops_internals_generic_gcc.h.
    This file is copyrighted by Red Hat Inc.

  - Atomicops support for AIX/POWER, located in
    src/google/protobuf/stubs/atomicops_internals_aix.h.
    This file is copyrighted by Bloomberg Finance LP.

Copyright 2014, Google Inc.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
    * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Code generated by the Protocol Buffer compiler is owned by the owner
of the input file used when generating it.  This code is not
standalone and requires a support library to be linked with it.  This
support library is itself covered by the above license.

# jsoncpp

The JsonCpp library's source code, including accompanying documentation,
tests and demonstration applications, are licensed under the following
conditions...

Baptiste Lepilleur and The JsonCpp Authors explicitly disclaim copyright in all
jurisdictions which recognize such a disclaimer. In such jurisdictions,
this software is released into the Public Domain.

In jurisdictions which do not recognize Public Domain property (e.g. Germany as of
2010), this software is Copyright (c) 2007-2010 by Baptiste Lepilleur and
The JsonCpp Authors, and is released under the terms of the MIT License (see below).

In jurisdictions which recognize Public Domain property, the user of this
software may choose to accept it either as 1) Public Domain, 2) under the
conditions of the MIT License (see below), or 3) under the terms of dual
Public Domain/MIT License conditions described here, as they choose.

The MIT License is about as close to Public Domain as a license can get, and is
described in clear, concise terms at:

   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License

The full text of the MIT License follows:

========================================================================
Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Baptiste Lepilleur and The JsonCpp Authors

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy,
modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

# boost

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
